Hash values underlie the entire structure of the blockchain.
In this video, we'll cover three commands you can
use to explore hash values using the debug console.
We'll cover getblockhash, getnetworkhash per second and getbestblockhash.
Having access to these hash values will allow you to run
more complicated commands later on to inspect the details of the blockchain.
First, we'll cover getblockhash.
Getblockhash returns the hash of a block at the block number you provide.
Accessing this hash value will allow you to further inspect
these blocks with a few commands we'll be reviewing throughout the lesson.
Using the help command,
you can see that you'll need to provide the height,
also known as the block number, for a block.
There's not much more to this one,
so let's try it.
I'll type, getblockhash followed by the block I want.
I'll try block 19.
What we get back is the hash of this block.
You can choose different blocks to get back
different hash values depending on what you're looking for.
This may seem simple but it's
an extremely powerful way to access information throughout the blockchain.
Next, let's look at getnetworkhashpsps,
ps stands for per second.
This command returns an estimated network hashes per
second based on a specified number of recent blocks.
The network is creating hash values as quickly as
possible and this is broken down into hashes per second using this command.
You can use this any time you might want to check the speed of the network.
Using the help function,
I can see that I need to provide the command followed by a number of blocks.
This input will be the number of recent blocks that we want to calculate the hash for.
I'll run this command checking the past 150 blocks.
We can also check the last 100 blocks to see the difference.
Finally, the last 50.
So, we can compare between the three.
Notice the difference between each of these.
Using this, you can start to get a feel for when
the network was operating slower or faster.
Since each hash is happening at a different rate,
it can't give an exact value for this,
but it can return the average.
That's why you're choosing a certain number of blocks to calculate the average from.
Finally, getbestblockhash returns the hash of the best block.
The best block is a term you might not be familiar with.
What it is, is the most recent block that
you've synced to your local copy of the blockchain.
There may be a thousand blocks that exist in the network,
but if you have currently only synced everything up to block 100,
then block 100 is considered your best block.
Knowing that, we can check this out using the help function.
There's not too much interesting going on here.
This return value is similar to getblockhash.
Instead of choosing a block,
it will default to giving you the hash of the most recent block.
Now, run getbestblockhash.
What we now see is the value of the most recent block that is synced to our blockchain.
That's all there is to it.
That wraps up our overview of some of the commands you can
use to explore hash values using the debug console.
To recap, we covered three commands you can use.
These commands were getblockhash,
getnetworkhash per second and getbestblockhash.
Try practicing these commands for yourself to help get more
familiar with how hash values are represented on the blockchain.